README.md, before:

<br/>
<p align="left">
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d96fec68-dfb9-41fd-a380-c97748403a91" height="60" alt="Typink">
</p>

Typesafe react hooks to interact with [ink!](https://use.ink/) smart contracts powered by [Dedot!](https://github.com/dedotdev/dedot)

![Version][ico-version]
![Unit test][ico-unit-test]
![E2E test][ico-e2e-test]
![License][ico-license]
[![Chat on Telegram][ico-telegram]][link-telegram]

[ico-telegram]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Dedot-2CA5E0.svg?style=flat-square&logo=telegram&label=Telegram
[ico-unit-test]: https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/dedotdev/typink/run-tests.yml?label=unit%20tests&style=flat-square
[ico-e2e-test]: https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/dedotdev/typink/zombienet-tests.yml?label=e2e%20tests&style=flat-square
[ico-version]: https://img.shields.io/github/package-json/v/dedotdev/typink?filename=packages%2Ftypink%2Fpackage.json&style=flat-square
[ico-license]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/dedotdev/typink?style=flat-square

[link-telegram]: https://t.me/JoinDedot

---

### Features
- Fully typesafe react hooks at contract messages & events level
- Choose your favorite wallet connector (Built-in Typink Connector, [SubConnect](https://github.com/Koniverse/SubConnect-v2), [Talisman Connect](https://github.com/TalismanSociety/talisman-connect), or build your own connector ...)
- Start a new project from scratch easily with `create-typink` cli.
- Support multiple networks, lazily initialize when in-use.
- ... and more to come

### Getting started

```shell
# via npm
npm i typink dedot

# via yarn
yarn add typink dedot

# via pnpm
pnpm add typink dedot
```

Typink heavily uses Typescript to enable & ensure type-safety, so we recommend using Typescript for your Dapp project. Typink will also work with plain Javascript, but you don't get the auto-completion & suggestions when interacting with your ink! contracts.

### Start a new project from scratch
#### Generate new project via `create-typink` cli

Typink comes with a cli to help you start a new project from scratch faster & easier, to create a new project, run the below command:

```ssh
npx create-typink@latest
```

Following the instructions, the cli will help you generate a starter & working project ready for you can start integrate your own contracts and build your own logic:

<img width="1919" alt="new-typink-project" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b10b1366-f97b-41a7-b3e9-97ceb1bd0748" />


#### Project folder structure
- `contracts`: ink! contract artifacts & generated types
  - `contracts/artifacts`: ink! contract artifacts (.wasm, .json or .contract file)
  - `contracts/types`: Typescript bindings for each ink! contract, these can be generated through [`dedot` cli](#2-generate-typescript-bindings-types-for-your-ink-contracts-from-the-metadata)
- `ui`: Main UI project, a React-based client

### Configure your project
#### 1. Deploy your contracts and setup contract deployments

Typink needs to know your contract deployments information (address, metadata, ...) to help you do the magic under the hood.

The `ContractDeployment` interface have the following structure:
```typescript
export interface ContractDeployment {
  id: string; // A unique easy-to-remember contract id, recommened put them in an enum
  metadata: ContractMetadata | string; // Metadata for the contract
  address: SubstrateAddress; // Address of the contract
  network: string; // The network id that the contract is deployed to, e.g: Pop Testnet (pop_testnet), Aleph Zero Testnet (alephzero_testnet) ...
}
```

Put these information in a separate file (e.g: `deployments.ts`) so you can easily manage it.

```typescript deployments.ts
// deployments.ts

import { ContractDeployment, popTestnet } from 'typink';
import greeterMetadata from './greeter.json';
import psp22Metadata from './psp22.json';

export enum ContractId {
  GREETER = 'greeter',
  PSP22 = 'psp22',
}

export const deployments = [
  {
    id: ContractId.GREETER,
    metadata: greeterMetadata,
    address: '5HJ2XLhBuoLkoJT5G2MfMWVpsybUtcqRGWe29Fo26JVvDCZG',
    network: popTestnet.id
  },
  {
    id: ContractId.PSP22,
    metadata: psp22Metadata as any,
    address: '16119BccKAfWwbt4TCNvfLBDuRWHSeFozJELEcxFPVd11hnt',
    network: popTestnet.id,
  },
];
```

#### 2. Generate Typescript bindings (types) for your ink! contracts from the metadata

Now, you'll need to generate the Typescript bindings for your ink! contracts using `dedot` cli. The types generated at this step will help enable the auto-completion & suggestions for your react hooks when interact with the contracts.

We recommend putting these types in a `./contracts/types` folder. Let's generate types for your `greeter` & `psp22` token contracts

```shell
npx dedot typink -m ./greeter.json -o ./contracts/types

npx dedot typink -m ./psp22.json -o ./contracts/types
```

After running the commands, the types will generated into the `./contracts/types` folder. You'll get the top-level type interface for `greeter` & `psp22` contracts as: `GreeterContractApi` and `Psp22ContractApi`.

> [!TIP]
> It's a good practice to put these commands to a shortcut script in th `package.json` file so you can easily regenerate these types again whenver you update the metadata for your contracts
>
> ```jsonc
> {
>    // ...
>    "scripts": {
>       "typink": "npx dedot typink -m ./greeter.json -o ./contracts/types && npx dedot typink -m ./psp22.json -o ./contracts/types"
>    }
>    // ...
> }
> ```
>
> To regenerate the types again:
> ```shell
> npm run typink
>
> # or
> yarn typink
>
> # or
> pnpm typink
> ```


#### 3. Setup your React application

Wrap your application component with `TypinkProvider`.

```tsx
import { popTestnet, development } from 'typink'
import { deployments } from './deployments';

// a default caller address when interact with ink! contract if there is no wallet is connected
const DEFAULT_CALLER = '5xxx...' 

const SUPPORTED_NETWORKS = [popTestnet]; // alephZeroTestnet, ...
if (process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development') {
  SUPPORTED_NETWORKS.push(development);
}

<TypinkProvider
  deployments={deployments}
  defaultCaller={DEFAULT_CALLER}
  supportedNetworks={SUPPORTED_NETWORKS}
  defaultNetworkId={popTestnet.id}
  cacheMetadata={true}>
  <MyAppComponent ... />
</TypinkProvider>
```

If you're using an external wallet connector like [SubConnect](https://github.com/Koniverse/SubConnect-v2) or [Talisman Connect](https://github.com/TalismanSociety/talisman-connect), you will need to pass into the `TypinkProvider` 2 more props: `connectedAccount` ([InjectedAccouunt](https://github.com/dedotdev/typink/blob/d10fe8b7fccc9ef7cdfc1b74576705c6f261160d/packages/typink/src/types.ts#L46-L51)) & `signer` ([Signer](https://github.com/polkadot-js/api/blob/42b9735c32671e4fac2a5b78283a7fcdec9ef912/packages/types/src/types/extrinsic.ts#L168-L183)) so Typink knows which account & signer to interact with the ink! contracts.

```tsx

const { connectedAccount, signer } = ... // from subconnect or talisman-connect ...

<TypinkProvider
  deployments={deployments}
  defaultCaller={DEFAULT_CALLER}
  supportedNetworks={SUPPORTED_NETWORKS}
  defaultNetworkId={popTestnet.id}
  cacheMetadata={true}
  connectedAccount={connectedAccount}
  signer={signer}
>
  <MyAppComponent ... />
</TypinkProvider>
```

### Providers & Hooks

#### Providers

- `TypinkProvider`: A global provider for Typink DApps, it managed shared state internally so hooks and child components can access (accounts, signer, wallet connection, Dedot clients, contract deployments ...)

#### Hooks

- `useTypink`: Give access to internal shared state managed by `TypinkProvider` giving access to connected account, signer, clients, contract deployments ... 
- `useBalance`, `useBalances`: Fetch native Substrate balances of an address or list of addresses, helpful for checking if the account has enough fund to making transactions 
- `useRawContract`: Create & manage `Contract` instance given its metadata & address
- `useContract`: Create & manage `Contract` instance given its unique id from the registered contract deployments 
- `useContractTx`: Provides functionality to sign and send transactions to a smart contract, and tracks the progress of the transaction.
- `useContractQuery`: Help making a contract query
- `useDeployer`: Create & manage `ContractDeployer` instance given its unique id from the registered contract deployments
- `useDeployerTx`: Similar to `useContractTx`, this hook provides functionality to sign and send transactions to deploy a smart contract, and tracks the progress of the transaction.
- `useWatchContractEvent`: Help watch for a specific contract event and perform a specific action
- `usePSP22Balance`: Fetch balance of an address from a PSP22 contract with ability to watch for balance changing

#### Utilities

- `formatBalance`: Format a balance value to a human-readable string

### Usage

#### `useTypink`

Access various shared states via `useTypink`

```tsx
// ...
const { 
  accounts, // list available accounts connected from the wallet
  connectedAccount, // connected account to interact with contracts & networks
  network, // current connected network info
  client, // Dedot clients to interact with network
  deployments, // contract deployments
  connectedWallet, // connected wallet
  connectWallet, // func to connect to a wallet given its id
  disconnect, // func to sign out and disconnect from the wallet
  wallets, // available wallets
  ...
} = useTypink();
// ...
```

#### `useContract` & `useContractQuery`

Instantiate a Greeter `Contract` instance using `useContract` and fetching the greet message using `useContractQuery`

```tsx
// ...
import { GreeterContractApi } from '@/contracts/types/greeter';

const { contract } = useContract<GreeterContractApi>(ContractId.GREETER);

const {
  data: greet,
  isLoading,
  refresh,
} = useContractQuery({
  contract,
  fn: 'greet',
});
// ...
```

#### `useContractTx`

Send a message to update the greeting message using `useContractTx`

```tsx
// ...
import { GreeterContractApi } from '@/contracts/types/greeter';

const [message, setMessage] = useState('');
const { contract } = useContract<GreeterContractApi>(ContractId.GREETER);
const setMessageTx = useContractTx(contract, 'setMessage');

const doSetMessage = async () => {
  if (!contract || !message) return;

  try {
    await setMessageTx.signAndSend({
      args: [message],
      callback: ({ status }) => {
        console.log(status);

        if (status.type === 'BestChainBlockIncluded') {
          setMessage(''); // Reset the message if the transaction is in block
        }

        // TODO showing a toast notifying transaction status
      },
    });
  } catch (e: any) {
    console.error('Fail to make transaction:', e);
    // TODO showing a toast message
  }
}
// ...
```

#### `useDeployer` & `useDeployerTx`

Instantiate a `ContractDeployer` instance to deploy Greeter contract using `useDeployer` and deploying the contract using `useDeployerTx`

```tsx
// ...

import { greeterMetadata } from '@/contracts/deployments.ts';

const wasm = greeterMetadata.source.wasm; // or greeterMetadata.source.hash (wasm hash code)
const { deployer } = useDeployer<GreeterContractApi>(greeterMetadata as any, wasm);
const newGreeterTx = useDeployerTx(deployer, 'new');
const [initMessage, setInitMessage] = useState<string>('');

const deployContraact = async () => {
  if (!contract || !initMessage) return;

  try {
    // a random salt to make sure we don't get into duplicated contract deployments issue
    const salt = numberToHex(Date.now()); 
    await newGreeterTx.signAndSend({
      args: [initMessage],
      txOptions: { salt },
      callback: ({ status }, deployedContractAddress) => {
        console.log(status);

        if (status.type === 'BestChainBlockIncluded') {
          setInitMessage('');
        }

        if (deployedContractAddress) {
          console.log('Contract is deployed at address', deployedContractAddress);
        }

        // TODO showing a toast notifying transaction status
      },
    });
  } catch (e: any) {
    console.error('Fail to make transaction:', e);
    // TODO showing a toast message
  }
}

// ...
```

#### `useWatchContractEvent`

Watching for the `Greeted` event emitted

```tsx
// ...
const { contract } = useContract<GreeterContractApi>(ContractId.GREETER);

useWatchContractEvent(
  contract,
  'Greeted', // fully-typed event name with auto-completion
  useCallback((events) => {
    events.forEach((greetedEvent) => {
      const {
        name,
        data: { from, message },
      } = greetedEvent; // fully-typed events

      console.log(`Found a ${name} event sent from: ${from?.address()}, message: ${message}`);
    });
  }, []),
)
// ...
```

#### `formatBalance`

Format a balance value to a human-readable string

```typescript
import { popTestnet } from 'typink';

formatBalance(1e12, popTestnet); // 100 PAS
```

### Examples

- [Demo](https://github.com/dedotdev/typink/tree/main/examples/demo) (https://typink-demo.netlify.app/)
- [Demo with SubConnect](https://github.com/dedotdev/typink/tree/main/examples/demo-subconnect) (https://typink-subconnect.netlify.app/)

### License

[MIT](https://github.com/dedotdev/typink/blob/main/LICENSE)

### Acknowledgements

Funded by W3F

Commit message:

chore: add note about NodeJS version (#139)
* chore: add note about NodeJS version

* Update README.md

* Update README.md

README.md, after:

<br/>
<p align="left">
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d96fec68-dfb9-41fd-a380-c97748403a91" height="60" alt="Typink">
</p>

Typesafe react hooks to interact with [ink!](https://use.ink/) smart contracts powered by [Dedot!](https://github.com/dedotdev/dedot)

![Version][ico-version]
![Unit test][ico-unit-test]
![E2E test][ico-e2e-test]
![License][ico-license]
[![Chat on Telegram][ico-telegram]][link-telegram]

[ico-telegram]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Dedot-2CA5E0.svg?style=flat-square&logo=telegram&label=Telegram
[ico-unit-test]: https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/dedotdev/typink/run-tests.yml?label=unit%20tests&style=flat-square
[ico-e2e-test]: https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/dedotdev/typink/zombienet-tests.yml?label=e2e%20tests&style=flat-square
[ico-version]: https://img.shields.io/github/package-json/v/dedotdev/typink?filename=packages%2Ftypink%2Fpackage.json&style=flat-square
[ico-license]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/dedotdev/typink?style=flat-square

[link-telegram]: https://t.me/JoinDedot

---

### Features
- Fully typesafe react hooks at contract messages & events level
- Choose your favorite wallet connector (Built-in Typink Connector, [SubConnect](https://github.com/Koniverse/SubConnect-v2), [Talisman Connect](https://github.com/TalismanSociety/talisman-connect), or build your own connector ...)
- Start a new project from scratch easily with `create-typink` cli.
- Support multiple networks, lazily initialize when in-use.
- ... and more to come

### Getting started

```shell
# via npm
npm i typink dedot

# via yarn
yarn add typink dedot

# via pnpm
pnpm add typink dedot
```

Typink heavily uses Typescript to enable & ensure type-safety, so we recommend using Typescript for your Dapp project. Typink will also work with plain Javascript, but you don't get the auto-completion & suggestions when interacting with your ink! contracts.

### Start a new project from scratch
#### Generate new project via `create-typink` cli

Typink comes with a cli to help you start a new project from scratch faster & easier, to create a new project, run the below command:

```ssh
npx create-typink@latest
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The `create-typink` cli requires NodeJS version >= `v20` to work properly, make sure to check your NodeJS version.


Following the instructions, the cli will help you generate a starter & working project ready for you can start integrate your own contracts and build your own logic:

<img width="1919" alt="new-typink-project" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b10b1366-f97b-41a7-b3e9-97ceb1bd0748" />

#### Project folder structure
- `contracts`: ink! contract artifacts & generated types
  - `contracts/artifacts`: ink! contract artifacts (.wasm, .json or .contract file)
  - `contracts/types`: Typescript bindings for each ink! contract, these can be generated through [`dedot` cli](#2-generate-typescript-bindings-types-for-your-ink-contracts-from-the-metadata)
- `ui`: Main UI project, a React-based client

### Configure your project
#### 1. Deploy your contracts and setup contract deployments

Typink needs to know your contract deployments information (address, metadata, ...) to help you do the magic under the hood.

The `ContractDeployment` interface have the following structure:
```typescript
export interface ContractDeployment {
  id: string; // A unique easy-to-remember contract id, recommened put them in an enum
  metadata: ContractMetadata | string; // Metadata for the contract
  address: SubstrateAddress; // Address of the contract
  network: string; // The network id that the contract is deployed to, e.g: Pop Testnet (pop_testnet), Aleph Zero Testnet (alephzero_testnet) ...
}
```

Put these information in a separate file (e.g: `deployments.ts`) so you can easily manage it.

```typescript deployments.ts
// deployments.ts

import { ContractDeployment, popTestnet } from 'typink';
import greeterMetadata from './greeter.json';
import psp22Metadata from './psp22.json';

export enum ContractId {
  GREETER = 'greeter',
  PSP22 = 'psp22',
}

export const deployments = [
  {
    id: ContractId.GREETER,
    metadata: greeterMetadata,
    address: '5HJ2XLhBuoLkoJT5G2MfMWVpsybUtcqRGWe29Fo26JVvDCZG',
    network: popTestnet.id
  },
  {
    id: ContractId.PSP22,
    metadata: psp22Metadata as any,
    address: '16119BccKAfWwbt4TCNvfLBDuRWHSeFozJELEcxFPVd11hnt',
    network: popTestnet.id,
  },
];
```

#### 2. Generate Typescript bindings (types) for your ink! contracts from the metadata

Now, you'll need to generate the Typescript bindings for your ink! contracts using `dedot` cli. The types generated at this step will help enable the auto-completion & suggestions for your react hooks when interact with the contracts.

We recommend putting these types in a `./contracts/types` folder. Let's generate types for your `greeter` & `psp22` token contracts

```shell
npx dedot typink -m ./greeter.json -o ./contracts/types

npx dedot typink -m ./psp22.json -o ./contracts/types
```

After running the commands, the types will generated into the `./contracts/types` folder. You'll get the top-level type interface for `greeter` & `psp22` contracts as: `GreeterContractApi` and `Psp22ContractApi`.

> [!TIP]
> It's a good practice to put these commands to a shortcut script in th `package.json` file so you can easily regenerate these types again whenver you update the metadata for your contracts
>
> ```jsonc
> {
>    // ...
>    "scripts": {
>       "typink": "npx dedot typink -m ./greeter.json -o ./contracts/types && npx dedot typink -m ./psp22.json -o ./contracts/types"
>    }
>    // ...
> }
> ```
>
> To regenerate the types again:
> ```shell
> npm run typink
>
> # or
> yarn typink
>
> # or
> pnpm typink
> ```


#### 3. Setup your React application

Wrap your application component with `TypinkProvider`.

```tsx
import { popTestnet, development } from 'typink'
import { deployments } from './deployments';

// a default caller address when interact with ink! contract if there is no wallet is connected
const DEFAULT_CALLER = '5xxx...' 

const SUPPORTED_NETWORKS = [popTestnet]; // alephZeroTestnet, ...
if (process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development') {
  SUPPORTED_NETWORKS.push(development);
}

<TypinkProvider
  deployments={deployments}
  defaultCaller={DEFAULT_CALLER}
  supportedNetworks={SUPPORTED_NETWORKS}
  defaultNetworkId={popTestnet.id}
  cacheMetadata={true}>
  <MyAppComponent ... />
</TypinkProvider>
```

If you're using an external wallet connector like [SubConnect](https://github.com/Koniverse/SubConnect-v2) or [Talisman Connect](https://github.com/TalismanSociety/talisman-connect), you will need to pass into the `TypinkProvider` 2 more props: `connectedAccount` ([InjectedAccouunt](https://github.com/dedotdev/typink/blob/d10fe8b7fccc9ef7cdfc1b74576705c6f261160d/packages/typink/src/types.ts#L46-L51)) & `signer` ([Signer](https://github.com/polkadot-js/api/blob/42b9735c32671e4fac2a5b78283a7fcdec9ef912/packages/types/src/types/extrinsic.ts#L168-L183)) so Typink knows which account & signer to interact with the ink! contracts.

```tsx

const { connectedAccount, signer } = ... // from subconnect or talisman-connect ...

<TypinkProvider
  deployments={deployments}
  defaultCaller={DEFAULT_CALLER}
  supportedNetworks={SUPPORTED_NETWORKS}
  defaultNetworkId={popTestnet.id}
  cacheMetadata={true}
  connectedAccount={connectedAccount}
  signer={signer}
>
  <MyAppComponent ... />
</TypinkProvider>
```

### Providers & Hooks

#### Providers

- `TypinkProvider`: A global provider for Typink DApps, it managed shared state internally so hooks and child components can access (accounts, signer, wallet connection, Dedot clients, contract deployments ...)

#### Hooks

- `useTypink`: Give access to internal shared state managed by `TypinkProvider` giving access to connected account, signer, clients, contract deployments ... 
- `useBalance`, `useBalances`: Fetch native Substrate balances of an address or list of addresses, helpful for checking if the account has enough fund to making transactions 
- `useRawContract`: Create & manage `Contract` instance given its metadata & address
- `useContract`: Create & manage `Contract` instance given its unique id from the registered contract deployments 
- `useContractTx`: Provides functionality to sign and send transactions to a smart contract, and tracks the progress of the transaction.
- `useContractQuery`: Help making a contract query
- `useDeployer`: Create & manage `ContractDeployer` instance given its unique id from the registered contract deployments
- `useDeployerTx`: Similar to `useContractTx`, this hook provides functionality to sign and send transactions to deploy a smart contract, and tracks the progress of the transaction.
- `useWatchContractEvent`: Help watch for a specific contract event and perform a specific action
- `usePSP22Balance`: Fetch balance of an address from a PSP22 contract with ability to watch for balance changing

#### Utilities

- `formatBalance`: Format a balance value to a human-readable string

### Usage

#### `useTypink`

Access various shared states via `useTypink`

```tsx
// ...
const { 
  accounts, // list available accounts connected from the wallet
  connectedAccount, // connected account to interact with contracts & networks
  network, // current connected network info
  client, // Dedot clients to interact with network
  deployments, // contract deployments
  connectedWallet, // connected wallet
  connectWallet, // func to connect to a wallet given its id
  disconnect, // func to sign out and disconnect from the wallet
  wallets, // available wallets
  ...
} = useTypink();
// ...
```

#### `useContract` & `useContractQuery`

Instantiate a Greeter `Contract` instance using `useContract` and fetching the greet message using `useContractQuery`

```tsx
// ...
import { GreeterContractApi } from '@/contracts/types/greeter';

const { contract } = useContract<GreeterContractApi>(ContractId.GREETER);

const {
  data: greet,
  isLoading,
  refresh,
} = useContractQuery({
  contract,
  fn: 'greet',
});
// ...
```

#### `useContractTx`

Send a message to update the greeting message using `useContractTx`

```tsx
// ...
import { GreeterContractApi } from '@/contracts/types/greeter';

const [message, setMessage] = useState('');
const { contract } = useContract<GreeterContractApi>(ContractId.GREETER);
const setMessageTx = useContractTx(contract, 'setMessage');

const doSetMessage = async () => {
  if (!contract || !message) return;

  try {
    await setMessageTx.signAndSend({
      args: [message],
      callback: ({ status }) => {
        console.log(status);

        if (status.type === 'BestChainBlockIncluded') {
          setMessage(''); // Reset the message if the transaction is in block
        }

        // TODO showing a toast notifying transaction status
      },
    });
  } catch (e: any) {
    console.error('Fail to make transaction:', e);
    // TODO showing a toast message
  }
}
// ...
```

#### `useDeployer` & `useDeployerTx`

Instantiate a `ContractDeployer` instance to deploy Greeter contract using `useDeployer` and deploying the contract using `useDeployerTx`

```tsx
// ...

import { greeterMetadata } from '@/contracts/deployments.ts';

const wasm = greeterMetadata.source.wasm; // or greeterMetadata.source.hash (wasm hash code)
const { deployer } = useDeployer<GreeterContractApi>(greeterMetadata as any, wasm);
const newGreeterTx = useDeployerTx(deployer, 'new');
const [initMessage, setInitMessage] = useState<string>('');

const deployContraact = async () => {
  if (!contract || !initMessage) return;

  try {
    // a random salt to make sure we don't get into duplicated contract deployments issue
    const salt = numberToHex(Date.now()); 
    await newGreeterTx.signAndSend({
      args: [initMessage],
      txOptions: { salt },
      callback: ({ status }, deployedContractAddress) => {
        console.log(status);

        if (status.type === 'BestChainBlockIncluded') {
          setInitMessage('');
        }

        if (deployedContractAddress) {
          console.log('Contract is deployed at address', deployedContractAddress);
        }

        // TODO showing a toast notifying transaction status
      },
    });
  } catch (e: any) {
    console.error('Fail to make transaction:', e);
    // TODO showing a toast message
  }
}

// ...
```

#### `useWatchContractEvent`

Watching for the `Greeted` event emitted

```tsx
// ...
const { contract } = useContract<GreeterContractApi>(ContractId.GREETER);

useWatchContractEvent(
  contract,
  'Greeted', // fully-typed event name with auto-completion
  useCallback((events) => {
    events.forEach((greetedEvent) => {
      const {
        name,
        data: { from, message },
      } = greetedEvent; // fully-typed events

      console.log(`Found a ${name} event sent from: ${from?.address()}, message: ${message}`);
    });
  }, []),
)
// ...
```

#### `formatBalance`

Format a balance value to a human-readable string

```typescript
import { popTestnet } from 'typink';

formatBalance(1e12, popTestnet); // 100 PAS
```

### Examples

- [Demo](https://github.com/dedotdev/typink/tree/main/examples/demo) (https://typink-demo.netlify.app/)
- [Demo with SubConnect](https://github.com/dedotdev/typink/tree/main/examples/demo-subconnect) (https://typink-subconnect.netlify.app/)

### License

[MIT](https://github.com/dedotdev/typink/blob/main/LICENSE)

### Acknowledgements

Funded by W3F
